(chore) Troubleshooting guide with Amplify Push error RCA and mitigation (#3960)
aws-amplify/docs: src/pages/cli/project/troubleshooting.mdx

export const meta = {
  title: `Troubleshooting Guide`,
  description: `This page will provide helpful information and links to troubleshoot Amplify CLI related errors.`,
};

> ## Description

Reviewer: remove header.

> This Troubleshooting Guide is intended to provide high level guidance to developers in the detection and correction of errors encountered during development, deployment and migration of applications built using the amplify-cli. This guide may also be useful for on-call engineers to assist customers encountering issues.This guide attempts to describe the most common and critical problems encountered by amplify-cli customers and is continuously updated to refer the latest documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This troubleshooting guide provides guidance to developers to detect and correct common errors encountered during development, deployment, and migration of apps built using the Amplify CLI.
```

## Essential Reading
### Amplify CLI Project 

> If you need to debug any deployment issues in an Amplify CLI generated project, it’s helpful to understand the [file structure of your project](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/reference/files/) using the CLI documentation. In addition to this, it would be helpful to understand the various artifacts generated by the Amplify CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To debug deployment issues, It's helpful to understand the [file structure of your Amplify-generated project](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/reference/files/) and the artifacts generated by the Amplify CLI.
```

> 1. Understanding Amplify CloudFormation artifacts: The Amplify CLI provisions AWS resources using [CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html) (compiled to templates) and input parameters provided by the developer during the CLI walkthrough process. In Amplify CLI ^7.x, some categories (Storage, Auth, API) allow developers to change the configuration of the CLI generated cloud resources using the [Amplify CLI Overrides feature](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/project/override/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Amplify CloudFormation artifacts: The Amplify CLI provisions AWS resources using [CloudFormation templates](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html) using input parameters provided from CLI command walkthroughs. Starting with Amplify CLI version 7 and above, some categories (Storage, Auth, API) allow developers to override the Amplify-generated AWS resource configurations with the [Amplify CLI Overrides feature](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/project/override/).
```

> 2. Understanding Amplify CLI Input Params artifacts: All user provided inputs are stored in JSON files in the /amplify/backend folder e.g. cli-inputs.json, amplify-meta.json. This information is critical when debugging any failures as they let you inspect the configurations (both developer provided and Amplify CLI generated) to root cause the problem. Please refer to the list of [Amplify Backend Files](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/reference/files/#backend-configjson) to ascertain if it’s safe to edit them or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Amplify CLI input parameters' artifacts: All user provided inputs are stored in JSON files in the `/amplify/backend` folder. For example, `cli-inputs.json` or `amplify-meta.json`. These files let you inspect the configurations, both developer-provided and Amplify-generated, to root cause potential problems. Please refer to the list of [Amplify Backend Files](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/reference/files/#backend-configjson) to ascertain if they are safe to edit.
```

1. Generate CloudFormation for deployment of resources to AWS.
2. Generate VTL & associated CloudFormation for the GraphQL API by running amplify api gql-compile. 
3. Build packages and upload the deployment artifacts into the application's deployment bucket. 
4. It then uses the AWS CloudFormation SDK to deploy the CloudFormation stack into the deployment account.
5. On a successful deployment of the resources to AWS, the Amplify CLI copies the deployment package in the name #current-cloud-backend.zip. This file is the source of truth for your deployment. Hence even if your local folder gets deleted or corrupted, you can always go back to your “last successful deployment” using the [`amplify pull`](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/start/workflows/#amplify-pull) command.
###### fig.1.0 Amplify Folders created in the Deployment Bucket
![ts-guide-amplify-deployment-folders](/images/ts-guide-amplify-deployment-folders.png)

The following section shows some examples on how to debug `amplify push` failures: 

### Handling Push Failures from Manual Changes to Cloud Resources - Drift 
<Callout warning>
Warning** 

> Once an application is deployed to the cloud using Amplify CLI the cloud resources like DynamoDB tables, Cognito Roles, IAM policies should never be updated manually from the AWS console of the services. 

Reviewer 2: It's probably worth either calling out other ways besides the AWS console, or not calling out any specific ways to update resources. I'd just say don't do it.

</Callout>

> The Amplify CLI cannot track manual changes applied to the resources through the AWS console and hence subsequent deployment to the cloud may fail. This state of the system where the actual resource state diverges from the CloudFormation stack is known as “CloudFormation Drift”. Currently there is no automated process to revert the system back to the earlier state and hence each resource has to be inspected through the AWS console for “Drift” in its CloudFormation stack and the “Drift” has to be reversed manually.

Reviewer 2: Same comment here about singling out the AWS console.

Reviewer 2: I think the last two uses of `"Drift"` can be rewritten as drift (no quotes, lowercase).

1. Some resource being referenced in the CloudFormation is missing from the failing account. 
2. The failing account has no permission to access a particular resource used in the CloudFormation. 
3. The application code relies on “secrets” and secrets are not correctly created or copied in the failing environment.
Here, you would want to debug the failing environment and root cause the problem.
Assume, you have created a project in a “Demo” environment and are planning to expand it to a full CI/CD environment with Dev, Test and Prod, your project most probably follows a pattern specified in the [Amplify Teams guide](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/teams/overview/#setting-up-prod-and-dev-environments). However on completion of all steps you observe that Amplify studio displays the “build” step of one of your stages as failed and others as successfully deployed.
##### Suggested Resolution: 
If your application uses secrets, please refer to https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/function/secrets/#accessing-the-values-in-your-function in the multi-env section to debug any issues related to secrets not being correctly copied across environments. 

> For debugging other problems, please use the amplify cli to deploy the application in the failing account using the following steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For debugging other problems, please use the Amplify CLI to deploy the application in the failing account using the following steps
```

To identify if a push failure is because of exceeding [AWS Service level quotas](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas) please check the AWS console for the CloudFormation deployment/failure logs.

##### Suggested Resolution: 
1. If the bug is related to hitting service-quotas, you can use AWS Service Quotas console to view and request increases for most AWS quotas.
2. If your application uses Amplify DataStore, some resource limits may affect deployment. Referring the [Amplify DataStore Best Practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/amplify-datastore-implementation/amplify-datastore-best-practices.html) document may provide insights into making the correct design decisions to help resolve these types of issues. 

> 3. If the service quotas cannot be increased, then this may require you to redesign some aspects of your application for sustainable running in a serverless environment. Referring to [AWS Knowledge Center](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/) may help understand the different prescribed design changes, for example, A complex GraphQL schema could be simplified to reduce the number of GraphQL resources in use e.g Collapsing Models, Composite Keys, Lambda resolvers. Using escape hatches like overrides and export may help to scale the application beyond the CLI generated architecture. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If the service quotas cannot be increased, then this may require you to redesign some aspects of your application for sustainable running in a serverless environment. Referring to [AWS Knowledge Center](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/) may help understand the different prescribed design changes. For example, a complex GraphQL schema could be simplified to reduce the number of GraphQL resources in use e.g collapsing models, composite keys, Lambda resolvers. Using escape hatches like overrides and export may help to scale the application beyond the CLI generated architecture. 
```

###### Example 1: Optimizing REST API schema for reducing policy count:

> Assume you have deployed a REST API using Amplify CLI with 3 routes and one lambda to handle all routes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assume you have deployed a REST API using Amplify CLI with 3 routes and one Lambda to handle all routes.
```

Amplify CLI in this case generates one policy per route and applies it to the lambda execution role. A configuration with 20 or more routes has the likelihood of hitting the “Max policies per role” limit per [AWS IAM limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_iam-limits.html). 

|Resources	|Policies|	Role|	Handler|
|-|-|-|-|
|/items/rock|	amplify generated policy1	| | |
|/items/paper| amplify generated policy2 |Execution Role Lambda| Lambda function |
|/items/scissors|	amplify generated policy3 || |		

However, if your application has many routes, one way to reduce the number of policies generated could be by creating a single resource with parameterization of the paths:
`/items?item=rock, /items?item=paper, /items?item=scissors` 
In this case the Amplify CLI creates only 1 policy for the /items resource.

|Resources	|Policies|	Role|	Handler|
|-|-|-|-|
|/items| amplify generated policy	| Execution Role Lambda | Lambda function |

### Handling push failures from: GraphQL Schema Syntax Errors
Tag: “Schema validation failed”, “Unknown directive”, “invalid directive”

> After making any GraphQL schema changes, please run amplify api gql-compile to ensure that the schema is correctly formed and amplify is able to generate valid CloudFormation from the GraphQL schema. Please refer the [Amplify CLI GraphQL(v2) Documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/overview/) to understand the latest Amplify GraphQL directives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After making any GraphQL schema changes, please run amplify api gql-compile to ensure that the schema is correctly formed and amplify is able to generate valid CloudFormation from the GraphQL schema. Please refer to the [Amplify CLI GraphQL Documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/overview/) to understand the latest Amplify GraphQL directives.
```

## Deployment Best Practices
This section describes the commonly followed best practices which help developers avoid deployment errors and scaling problems.
### Overriding Amplify CLI Behavior 
The Amplify CLI follows a unidirectional data flow. Any changes to your application must be performed only through the Amplify CLI and the associated configuration files or through Amplify Studio. You should never manually edit any resources directly from the AWS console or using the AWS CLI/SDK, unless the Amplify documentation explains that it’s necessary to achieve something. If you wish to override the default behavior of Amplify CLI generated resources, you should follow the instructions in the [Amplify extensibility documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/#extensibility) which details all the “escape hatches” available in the Amplify CLI framework. 

### Changing Model Names in the GraphQL Schema
<Callout information>
Error Messages: “An error occurred during the push operation: Removing a model from the GraphQL schema will also remove the underlying DynamoDB table”, “ALL EXISTING DATA IN THESE TABLES WILL BE LOST!”
</Callout>

> If you've previously pushed the schema to the cloud and then rename the table in the schema, then the subsequent push will fail and require you to pass `—allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates`. This flag will result in the deletion of the backing dynamo table for the old model and subsequent creation of the tables with the new model names. The exception to this is the new @mapsTo directive which has not released yet, allowing you to preserve data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've previously pushed the schema to the cloud and then rename the table in the schema, then the subsequent push will fail and require you to pass `—allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates`. This flag will result in the deletion of the backing DynamoDB  table for the old model and subsequent creation of the tables with the new model names. The exception to this is the `@mapsTo` directive which allows resources to be renamed. 
```

###### Example 1: The following scenario shows the error displayed by the Amplify CLI when you try to push a schema change to the cloud (for an already deployed table). 

###### fig.1.3 Amplify GraphQL Model Deletion Warning/Error
![ts-guide-model-deletion-warning](/images/ts-guide-model-deletion-warning.png)

### Migration from GraphQL Transformer V1 to GraphQL Transformer V2

> If you have previously deployed an application using GraphQL Transformer V1 and have decided to migrate to GraphQL transformer V2 , please go through the [GraphQL Transformer migration document](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/migration/transformer-migration/#changes-that-amplify-cli-will-auto-migrate-for-you) to understand the impact of the migration on the schema directives and limitations prior to updating. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have previously deployed an application using GraphQL Transformer V1 and have decided to migrate to GraphQL transformer V2, go through the [GraphQL Transformer migration document](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/migration/transformer-migration/#changes-that-amplify-cli-will-auto-migrate-for-you) to understand the impact of the migration on the schema directives and limitations prior to updating. 
```

> If you have previously deployed an application using GraphQL Transformer V1 and have decided to migrate to GraphQL transformer V2 , please go through the [GraphQL Transformer migration document](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/migration/transformer-migration/#changes-that-amplify-cli-will-auto-migrate-for-you) to understand the impact of the migration on the schema directives and limitations prior to updating. 

Reviewer 2: For this section, it might be worth calling out specific feature flags that control the transformer version and that the version is printed in `amplify status`.

### Local Testing 
Test schema changes and business logic as much as you can prior to deployment, amplify mock allows validate your cloud dependencies locally. It’s easier to find a bug locally and fix it than it is to fix cloud resources that have been put in a bad state. Follow the mock testing examples in [Advanced Workflows document](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/usage/mock/) to dive deeper.

> ## References and Bibliography 

Reviewer 2: This section could probably be called Further Reading and combined with the existing Further Reading section.

For debugging other problems, please use the Amplify CLI to deploy the application in the failing account using the following steps
1. amplify pull --appId successfulEnvAppID --envName successfulEnv
1. amplify env checkout failingEnv
1. amplify push 

If the push fails, please check the CloudFormation event logs for the failing resource to get detailed information and use this to fix issues in the environment. Visit the CloudFormation service console and search for you application name. e.g. An application named lil deployed in the beta environment would have a CloudFormation stack named amplify-lil-beta-{random chars}. Click on stack name and the Resources tab to view the status and the error reason.
This figure displays the CloudFormation status logs for a failed resource deployed through Amplify CLI:

###### fig.1.1 Cloudformation Stack Deployment Error
![ts-guide-cfn-error](/images/ts-guide-cfn-error.png)

### Handling push failures from: Application resources hitting AWS Service Limits
<Callout information>
Error Messages: 
"Limit on the number of resources in a single stack operation exceeded” 
"Cannot exceed quota for PoliciesPerRole"
</Callout>

> AWS maintains service quotas (formerly called service limits) for each account to help guarantee the availability of AWS resources and prevent accidental provisioning of more resources than needed. If your application contains many resources, especially for particularly big GraphQL schemas with complex connections and resolvers or REST APIs with many resolvers, it’s likely that you might eventually hit AWS Service Limits leading to amplify push failures. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AWS maintains [service quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) for various AWS services. If your application contains many resources, such as large GraphQL schemas or REST APIs with many resolvers, you may hit a service limit. 
```

> To identify if a push failure is because of exceeding [AWS Service level quotas](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas) please check the AWS console for the CloudFormation deployment/failure logs.

Reviewer 3: this link requires being signed in to the console to view. I'd suggest using the link in my above suggestion

1. If your application uses Amplify DataStore, some resource limits may affect deployment. Referring the [Amplify DataStore Best Practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/amplify-datastore-implementation/amplify-datastore-best-practices.html) document may provide insights into making the correct design decisions to help resolve these types of issues. 
1. If the service quotas cannot be increased, then this may require you to redesign some aspects of your application for sustainable running in a serverless environment. Referring to [AWS Knowledge Center](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/) may help understand the different prescribed design changes. For example, a complex GraphQL schema could be simplified to reduce the number of GraphQL resources in use e.g collapsing models, composite keys, Lambda resolvers. Using escape hatches like overrides and export may help to scale the application beyond the CLI generated architecture. 

###### Example 1: Optimizing REST API schema for reducing policy count:
Assume you have deployed a REST API using Amplify CLI with 3 routes and one Lambda to handle all routes.

> Amplify CLI in this case generates one policy per route and applies it to the Lambda execution role. A configuration with 20 or more routes has the likelihood of hitting the “Max policies per role” limit per [AWS IAM limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_iam-limits.html). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Amplify CLI in this case generates one policy per route and applies it to the Lambda execution role. A configuration with 20 or more routes may hit the “Max policies per role” limit per [AWS IAM limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_iam-limits.html). 
```

|Resources	|Policies|	Role|	Handler|
|-|-|-|-|
|/items/rock|	amplify generated policy1	| | |
|/items/paper| amplify generated policy2 |Execution Role Lambda| Lambda function |
|/items/scissors|	amplify generated policy3 || |		

> However, if your application has many routes, one way to reduce the number of policies generated could be by creating a single resource with parameterization of the paths:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, if your application has many routes, one way to reduce the number of policies generated is creating a single resource with parameterization of the paths:
```

`/items?item=rock, /items?item=paper, /items?item=scissors` 
In this case the Amplify CLI creates only 1 policy for the /items resource.

|Resources	|Policies|	Role|	Handler|
|-|-|-|-|
|/items| amplify generated policy	| Execution Role Lambda | Lambda function |

### Handling push failures from: GraphQL Schema Syntax Errors
Tag: “Schema validation failed”, “Unknown directive”, “invalid directive”

> After making any GraphQL schema changes, please run amplify api gql-compile to ensure that the schema is correctly formed and amplify is able to generate valid CloudFormation from the GraphQL schema. Please refer to the [Amplify CLI GraphQL Documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/overview/) to understand the latest Amplify GraphQL directives.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After making any GraphQL schema changes, run `amplify api gql-compile` to ensure that the schema is correctly formed and amplify is able to generate valid CloudFormation from the GraphQL schema. Refer to the [Amplify CLI GraphQL Documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/overview/) to understand the latest Amplify GraphQL directives.
```

###### Example:

> Assume your GraphQL schema has an error where the directive @model is misspelt as @mode:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assume your GraphQL schema has an error where the directive @model is misspelled as @mode:
```

```graphql
type Tag @mode { /** @mode is an invalid directive **/
  id : ID!
  tag: String
  topics: [Topic]
}
```

> On running gql-compile the transform step will fail with an invalid directive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When running `amplify api gql-compile` the transform step will fail with an invalid directive error.
```

###### fig.1.2 Amplify GraphQL Schema Validation Error
![ts-guide-gql-schema-validation-error](/images/ts-guide-gql-schema-validation-error.png)

### Troubleshooting other GraphQL schema related errors 

> If amplify push fails while deploying any of the below mentioned operations, please refer to the [Amplify GraphQL Troubleshooting Guide](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If `amplify push` fails while deploying any of the scenarios below, refer to the [Amplify GraphQL Troubleshooting Guide](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/).
```

1.	[Deploying multiple index changes in a single amplify push](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/#deploying-multiple-index-changes-at-once)
1.	[Backfill OpenSearch index from DynamoDB table](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/#deploying-multiple-index-changes-at-once)
1.	[Index with Multi-Sort Key Fields](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/#index-with-multiple-sort-key-fields)

## Deployment Best Practices

> This section describes the commonly followed best practices which help developers avoid deployment errors and scaling problems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Practices which help developers avoid deployment errors and scaling problems.
```

### Overriding Amplify CLI Behavior 

> The Amplify CLI follows a unidirectional data flow. Any changes to your application must be performed only through the Amplify CLI and the associated configuration files or through Amplify Studio. You should never manually edit any resources directly from the AWS console or using the AWS CLI/SDK, unless the Amplify documentation explains that it’s necessary to achieve something. If you wish to override the default behavior of Amplify CLI generated resources, you should follow the instructions in the [Amplify extensibility documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/#extensibility) which details all the “escape hatches” available in the Amplify CLI framework. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Amplify CLI follows a unidirectional data flow. Any changes to your application must be performed only through the Amplify CLI and the associated configuration files or through Amplify Studio. Never manually edit any resources directly from the AWS console or using the AWS CLI/SDK, unless the Amplify documentation explains that it’s necessary to achieve something. To override the default behavior of Amplify CLI generated resources, you should follow the instructions in the [Amplify extensibility documentation](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/#extensibility) which details all the “escape hatches” available in the Amplify CLI framework. 
```

###### Example 1: The following scenario shows the error displayed by the Amplify CLI when you try to push a schema change to the cloud (for an already deployed table). 

###### fig.1.3 Amplify GraphQL Model Deletion Warning/Error
![ts-guide-model-deletion-warning](/images/ts-guide-model-deletion-warning.png)

### Migration from GraphQL Transformer V1 to GraphQL Transformer V2
If you have previously deployed an application using GraphQL Transformer V1 and have decided to migrate to GraphQL transformer V2, go through the [GraphQL Transformer migration document](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/migration/transformer-migration/#changes-that-amplify-cli-will-auto-migrate-for-you) to understand the impact of the migration on the schema directives and limitations prior to updating. You can confirm the version of the GraphQL transformer using the `amplify status` command.

> You can confirm the version of the GraphQL transformer of your application using `amplify status` command. The GraphQL transformer version of the application is controlled by the `transformerversion` feature flag in the `${project-root}/amplify/cli.json` file.

Reviewer 3: duplicate info from the previous line here

export const meta = {

>   title: `Troubleshooting Guide`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: `Troubleshooting guide`,
```

  description: `Information to troubleshoot common Amplify CLI project errors.`,
};

This troubleshooting guide provides guidance to developers to detect and correct common errors encountered during development, deployment, and migration of apps built using the Amplify CLI.

> ## Essential Reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Essential reading
```

> ### Amplify CLI Project 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Amplify CLI Project 
```
```suggestion
### Amplify CLI project 
```

### Amplify GraphQL API
Resolving deployment issues in Amplify projects with a GraphQL API:

#### Understanding Amplify GraphQL artifacts:

The Amplify CLI GraphQL workflow helps generate AWS AppSync infrastructure resources (API definitions, schema, resolvers) and client-side code. Running `amplify api gql-compile` and [amplify codegen](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/client-code-generation/) prior to running `amplify push` may help developers to validate their GraphQL schemas and avoid getting `amplify push` failures. Please refer to the [Amplify GraphQL Troubleshooting guide](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/).
  * GraphQL schema VTL generation: The Amplify CLI GraphQL workflow uses the [AWS AppSync service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appsync/latest/devguide/system-overview-and-architecture.html) to provision the GraphQL API. The “amplify api gql-compile” command transpiles the GraphQL schema provided by the developer and generates all the artifacts required to deploy the API in AWS. 

>     +	Directives like [@model](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/), [@function](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/function/), [@auth](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/auth/#auth) and [@searchable](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/searchable/#definition) in the GraphQL schema are used to generate CloudFormation and provision AWS resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    +	Directives like [@model](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/), [@function](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/function/), [@auth](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/auth/#auth), and [@searchable](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/searchable/#definition) in the GraphQL schema are used to generate CloudFormation and provision AWS resources.
```

    +	The GraphQL resolvers for Query, Mutation or Subscription are converted into [VTL (Velocity Template Language)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appsync/latest/devguide/resolver-mapping-template-reference-programming-guide.html) files. AWS AppSync uses VTL to translate GraphQL requests from clients into a request to your data source.

>   * GraphQL schema client-side code generation: The Amplify CLI GraphQL workflow allows developers to generate client side code for web and mobile clients using the `amplify codegen` command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * GraphQL schema client-side code generation: The Amplify CLI GraphQL workflow allows developers to generate client-side code for web and mobile clients using the `amplify codegen` command. 
```

> ## Troubleshooting `amplify push` failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting "amplify push" failures
```

this is a weird one. The rendering has problems with code blocks in headers... so converting to quotation marks.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4989523/152068880-77dcc442-47a3-4c93-8593-f04e5c6bede0.png)

1. It generates CloudFormation for deployment of resources to AWS.
1. When building a GraphQL API, the CLI runs `amplify api gql-compile` internally to compile the schema and generate VTL (Velocity Templates) for mapping resolvers and CloudFormation templates to allocate AWS resources. 
1. It builds, packages, and uploads the deployment artifacts into the application's deployment bucket. 
1. It uses the AWS CloudFormation SDK to deploy the CloudFormation stack into your AWS account.
1. On a successful deployment of the resources to AWS, the Amplify CLI renames the deployment package in the deployment bucket to `#current-cloud-backend.zip`. This file is the source of truth for your deployment.
1. If your local project is deleted or corrupted, you can always go back to your last successful deployment using [`amplify pull`](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/start/workflows/#amplify-pull).

![Amplify folders created in the deployment bucket](/images/ts-guide-amplify-deployment-folders.png)

The following section shows some examples on how to debug `amplify push` failures: 

### Push failures from manual changes to cloud resources - Drift 
<Callout warning>

> **Warning:** Once an application is deployed to the cloud using Amplify CLI the cloud resources like DynamoDB tables, Cognito Roles, IAM policies must never be updated manually. 

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4989523/152069007-27241dbc-0123-41d4-80c9-42a02e0dde04.png)
this still doesn't render properly. maybe this will fix it.
```suggestion

**Warning:** Once an application is deployed to the cloud using Amplify CLI the cloud resources like DynamoDB tables, Cognito Roles, IAM policies must never be updated manually. 

```

</Callout>

The Amplify CLI cannot track manual changes applied to deployed resources. This state is called “CloudFormation drift” and may cause subsequent deployments to fail. Currently there is no automated way to fix CloudFormation drift. Each resource must be inspected through the AWS console for drift in its CloudFormation stack and the drift has to be resolved manually.

> Assume, you have created a GraphQL schema in Amplify with multiple models which results in the creation of AppSync API models, resolvers and multiple DynamoDB tables and GSIs. 

Reviewer: Is this sentence in the right place? I don't see the immediate connection to the next sections.

#### Scenario 1: `amplify push` fails after manually updating DynamoDB tables and GSIs.

> Assume a situation where you have renamed GraphQL [@model](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)s in your Amplify CLI project and updated their [@index](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/) parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume you have renamed GraphQL [@model](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)s in your Amplify CLI project and updated their [@index](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/) parameters. 
```

> However, at this point you use the DynamoDB console in your account to delete multiple [GSIs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/GSI.html) belonging to the Amplify application which belonged to the older model names. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you also use the DynamoDB console in your account to delete multiple [GSIs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/GSI.html) in your Amplify-created table. 
```
Is this correct? Not sure fully if the "older model names" here is relevant.

> This action will introduce drift in the CloudFormation stack deployed by Amplify. Since the GSIs corresponding to the older DynamoDB tables are deleted, any change to index parameters will fail during deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action will introduce drift in the CloudFormation stack deployed by Amplify. Since the GSIs corresponding to the older DynamoDB tables are deleted, any change to index parameters will fail during deployment. 
```
I think there's a narrative here on "older models" but I don't fully get it. Maybe better context setting up front helps.

> ##### Suggested Resolution:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggested Resolution:**
```

To fix deployment failures due to drift, manually rollback the state of the drifted resource to match its state in CloudFormation. Then retry `amplify push`. 

> 1. You can view the drift in the DynamoDB CloudFormation Stack per instructions in the [AWS Drift Detection document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/detect-drift-stack.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You can view the drift in the DynamoDB CloudFormation Stack per instructions in the [AWS Drift Detection documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/detect-drift-stack.html)
```

1. Revert every drift manually through the AWS console. In this particular scenario, re-create the GSIs and manually undo any renaming changes.
1. Perform an `amplify push`.

#### Scenario 2: `amplify push` fails after manually updating (non database) resources in the cloud.

> * You have manually updated your GraphQL schema using the AppSync console. Or
> * You have manually deleted user pools from the Cognito console. Or
> * You have updated the code in Lambda functions which were originally deployed through Amplify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you have:
* manually updated your GraphQL schema using the AppSync console, or
* manually deleted a user pool from the Cognito console, or
* updated the code in Lambda functions which were originally deployed through Amplify.
```

> ##### Suggested Resolution: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggested Resolution:** 
```

These types of drift must be addressed on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, such as a Lambda code change, forcing a redeployment of the function by making a minor change to the code may work. In other cases, like deleting user pools or updates to GraphQL schema from the AppSync console, try the following steps:
1. Forcible deployment of CloudFormation stack from the CLI - Run `amplify push --force` to force push the application’s resource stack to be deployed.
1. Forcible deployment of CloudFormation stack from the Console - Fetch the CloudFormation stack from the application’s deployment bucket and selectively run the resource specific part of the stack through the CloudFormation console.
1. Apply drift changes into code: If both the above methods to deploy CloudFormation have failed for you, the other option is to inspect the manual changes and to update them in the CLI input files. For example, you could update the GraphQL schema to reflect the same changes as performed manually in the cloud.

> ### Push failures in a multi-account multi-environment project (CI/CD errors)

Reviewer: Do we have the error codes that are thrown here? I like how it was incorporated in other sections above.

> In a multi-account project with CI/CD, if you find that the application is deployed correctly in one environment, but fails in another environment, some of the probable causes are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a multi-account project with CI/CD, some causes for an application deploying correctly in one environment but failing in another environment are:
```

1. Some resource being referenced in the CloudFormation is missing from the failing account. 
1. The failing account has no permission to access a particular resource used in the CloudFormation. 
1. The application code relies on “secrets” and secrets are not correctly created or copied in the failing environment.

#### Scenario 1: Amplify push fails in one account/environment

> Assume, you have created a project in a “Demo” account and are planning to expand it to a full CI/CD pipeline with Dev, Test and Prod environments, your project most probably follows a pattern specified in the [Amplify Teams guide](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/teams/overview/#setting-up-prod-and-dev-environments). However on completion of all steps you observe that Amplify studio displays the “build” step of one of your stages as failed and others as successfully deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume you created a project in a “Demo” account and are planning to expand it to a full CI/CD pipeline with Dev, Test and Prod environments. Your project likely follows a pattern specified in the [Amplify CLI's team environments guide](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/teams/overview/#setting-up-prod-and-dev-environments). However on completion of all steps you observe that Amplify Hosting console displays the “build” step of one of your stages as failed and others as successfully deployed.
```

> ##### Suggested Resolution: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggested Resolution: **
```

> If your application uses secrets, refer to https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/function/secrets/#accessing-the-values-in-your-function in the multi-env section to debug any issues related to secrets not being correctly copied across environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application uses secrets, refer to https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/function/secrets/#accessing-the-values-in-your-function in the multi-env section to debug any issues related to secrets not being correctly copied across environments. 
```

Please correct with proper reference. Let's not pull the links in directly.

For debugging other problems, using Amplify CLI deploy the application in the failing account.
1. `amplify pull --appId successfulEnvAppID --envName successfulEnv`
1. `amplify env checkout failingEnv`
1. `amplify push` 

> If the push fails, check the CloudFormation event logs for the failing resource to get detailed information and use this to fix issues in the environment. Visit the CloudFormation service console and search for you application name. An application named "myProject" deployed in a "beta" environment would have a CloudFormation stack named amplify-myProject-beta-{random chars}. Click on the stack name and the Resources tab to view the status and the error reason.

Reviewer: I don't fully get this part. Where's the "beta" environment coming from?

> This figure displays the CloudFormation status logs for a deployment failure of a resource:

Reviewer: Recommend removing in favor of alt text.

![Cloudformation stack deployment error](/images/ts-guide-cfn-error.png)

### Push failures from resources exceeding AWS service quotas
<Callout information>
Error Messages: 

"Limit on the number of resources in a single stack operation exceeded”  
"Cannot exceed quota for PoliciesPerRole"
</Callout>

> AWS maintains [service quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) for various AWS services. If your application contains many resources, such as large GraphQL schemas or REST APIs with many resolvers, you may hit a service limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS maintains [service quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) for various AWS services. If your application contains many resources, such as large GraphQL schemas with many resolvers or many REST APIs, you may hit a service limit.
```

To identify if a push failure is because of exceeding [AWS Service level quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) check the AWS console for the CloudFormation deployment/failure logs.

> ##### Suggested Resolution: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggested Resolution: **
```

> 1. If the bug is related to hitting service-quotas, you can use [AWS Service Quotas console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas) to view and request increases for most AWS quotas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the bug is related to hitting service quotas, you can use [AWS Service Quotas console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas) to view and request increases for most AWS quotas.
```

> 1. If your application uses Amplify DataStore, some resource limits may affect deployment. Referring the [Amplify DataStore Best Practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/amplify-datastore-implementation/amplify-datastore-best-practices.html) document may provide insights into making the correct design decisions to help resolve these types of issues. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your application uses Amplify DataStore, some resource limits may affect deployment. Refer to [Amplify DataStore Best Practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/amplify-datastore-implementation/amplify-datastore-best-practices.html) for insights into making the correct design decisions to help resolve these types of issues. 
```

</Callout>

When a resource is deployed through Amplify is updated outside of Amplify this is called an unmanaged change. 
The Amplify CLI cannot track such changes since they are applied outside of the Cloudformation generated by Amplify to provision those resources. 
This difference between the expected configuration of the resource in the Cloudformation vs the actual configuration of the service is called a “CloudFormation drift”. 
Currently there is no automated way to reverse a CloudFormation drift. Each resource must be inspected through the AWS console for drift in it's CloudFormation stack and the drift has to be resolved manually.

Assume, using Amplify CLI you have created a GraphQL schema with multiple models, indexes and resolvers and deployed it to the cloud. 
On deployment of this application, the Amplify generated CloudFormation template provisions AppSync API models, resolvers, multiple DynamoDB tables and GSIs. 

#### Scenario 1: "amplify push" fails after manually updating DynamoDB tables and GSIs from the console.
Assume you have an application with a GraphQL schema deployed to the cloud. 

> Amplify creates DynamoDB tables for all [@model]((/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)) annotations and GSIs for all [@index]((/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)) fields in the GraphQL schema. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amplify creates DynamoDB tables for all [@model]((/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)) types and GSIs for all [@index]((/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)) fields in the GraphQL schema. 
```

> Now, if you login into the DynamoDB console and delete any of these GSIs, this introduces a drift in the application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Drift" is introduced if you delete any of the GSIs using the DynamoDB console, instead of using the Amplify CLI.
```

> This may cause future changes to the GraphQL schema to fail deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With drift, future changes to the GraphQL schema may fail to deploy. 
```

> As an example, if you change the names of some @models and @index fields in your GraphQL schema and perform `amplify push`with`—allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates`flag enabled, Amplify will first remove all DynamoDB tables corresponding to the original model names. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, if you change the names of some `@model` types and `@index` fields in your GraphQL schema and perform the `amplify push —allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates` command, Amplify will first remove all DynamoDB tables corresponding to the original model names. 
```

> However if any of the GSIs on these tables were already deleted manually from the console then the deployment will fail. This is because Amplify’s CloudFormation is attempting to update the state of a resource (the GSI) which doesn’t exist. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However if any of the GSIs on these tables were already deleted manually from the console then the deployment will fail. This is because Amplify’s CloudFormation stack is attempting to update the state of a resource (the GSI) which doesn’t exist. 
```

1. Amplify CLI walkthrough input parameters artifacts: All inputs provided by the user during a CLI walkthrough are stored in JSON files in the `/amplify/backend` folder. For example, `cli-inputs.json` or `amplify-meta.json`. These files let you inspect the configurations, both developer-provided and Amplify-generated, to root cause potential problems. 
   Refer to [Amplify backend files documentation](/cli/reference/files/#backend-configjson) to determine if a file is safe to edit manually.

### For Amplify CLI projects with GraphQL API
To debug deployment issues in projects with GraphQL API, it's helpful to understand the various artifacts generated by Amplify in a GraphQL project. 
1. GraphQL schema VTL generation: The Amplify CLI GraphQL workflow uses the [AWS AppSync service](/appsync/latest/devguide/system-overview-and-architecture.html) to provision the GraphQL API. The `amplify api gql-compile` command transpiles the GraphQL schema provided by the developer and generates all the artifacts required to deploy the API in AWS. 

>    * Directives like [@model](/cli/graphql/data-modeling/), [@function](/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/function/), [@auth](/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/auth/#auth), and [@searchable](/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/searchable/#definition) in the GraphQL schema are used to generate CloudFormation and provision AWS resources.

Reviewer: Update all links to use the new docs, not the legacy docs.

1. If your local project is deleted or corrupted, you can always go back to your last successful deployment using [`amplify pull`](/cli/start/workflows/#amplify-pull).

** This table shows the important files and folders in the Amplify deployment bucket **

|Name|Type|Purpose|
|-|-|-|
|#current-cloud-backend.zip|zip file|Source of truth for the Amplify project.|
|amplify-appsync-files/ |folder| GraphQL API deployment artifacts (VTL resolvers, CloudFormation) |
|amplify-cfn-templates/ |folder| CloudFormation templates generated by Amplify for each resource category |
|amplify-meta.json| file | Used by CLI core and the plugins to log internal information and to communicate with each other |
|backend-config.json | file | Configuration about how your project's backend connects to AWS resources | 
|hooks/ | folder | User provided Amplify hooks scripts |
|root-cloudformation-stack.json | file | The parent CloudFormation template for your application's nested stack |

** The following sections contain examples of different types of "amplify push" failures and suggested resolutions **

### Push failures from unmanaged changes to cloud resources - Drift 
<Callout warning>

> **Warning:** Once an application is deployed to the cloud using Amplify CLI the cloud resources like DynamoDB tables, Cognito Roles, IAM policies must never be updated outside of Amplify CLI or Amplify Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Warning:** Once an application is deployed to the cloud using Amplify CLI the cloud resources like DynamoDB tables, Cognito Roles, or IAM policies must never be updated outside of Amplify CLI or Amplify Studio.
```

</Callout>

> When a resource is deployed through Amplify is updated outside of Amplify this is called an unmanaged change. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A change to Amplify-generated resource from outside of Amplify, such as using the AWS console, is called an "unmanaged change".
```

> The Amplify CLI cannot track such changes since they are applied outside of the Cloudformation generated by Amplify to provision those resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Amplify CLI cannot track such changes made outside of the Amplify-generated CloudFormation stack. 
```

> This difference between the expected configuration of the resource in the Cloudformation vs the actual configuration of the service is called a “CloudFormation drift”. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This difference between the expected configuration of the resource in the Cloudformation versus the actual configuration of the service is called a “CloudFormation drift”. 
```

> Currently there is no automated way to reverse a CloudFormation drift. Each resource must be inspected through the AWS console for drift in it's CloudFormation stack and the drift has to be resolved manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently there is no automated way to reverse a CloudFormation drift. Each resource must be inspected through the AWS console for drift in its CloudFormation stack and the drift has to be resolved manually.
```

> Assume, using Amplify CLI you have created a GraphQL schema with multiple models, indexes and resolvers and deployed it to the cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume, using Amplify CLI, you have created a GraphQL schema with multiple models, indexes and resolvers and deployed it to the cloud. 
```

Reviewer: Could you help me understand the purpose of this "Assume...." at all? Aren't you repeating the scenario in "Scenario 1: ..."?

> On deployment of this application, the Amplify generated CloudFormation template provisions AppSync API models, resolvers, multiple DynamoDB tables and GSIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon deployment, the Amplify-generated CloudFormation templates provision an AppSync GraphQL API and multiple DynamoDB tables with their GSIs. 
```

#### Scenario 1: "amplify push" fails after manually updating DynamoDB tables and GSIs from the console.
Assume you have an application with a GraphQL schema deployed to the cloud. 
Amplify creates DynamoDB tables for all [@model]((/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)) types and GSIs for all [@index]((/cli/graphql/data-modeling/)) fields in the GraphQL schema. 
"Drift" is introduced if you delete any of the GSIs using the DynamoDB console, instead of using the Amplify CLI.
With drift, future changes to the GraphQL schema may fail to deploy. 
As an example, if you change the names of some `@model` types and `@index` fields in your GraphQL schema and perform the `amplify push —allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates` command, Amplify will first remove all DynamoDB tables corresponding to the original model names. 

> However if any of the GSIs on these tables were already deleted manually from the console then the deployment will fail. This is because Amplify’s CloudFormation stack is attempting to update the state of a resource (the GSI) which doesn’t exist. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However if any of these tables' GSIs were already deleted manually from the console, then the deployment will fail. This is because Amplify’s CloudFormation stack is attempting to update the state of a resource (the GSI) which doesn’t exist. 
```

1. Revert every drift manually through the AWS console. In this particular scenario, re-create the GSIs and manually undo any renaming changes.
1. Perform an `amplify push`.

#### Scenario 2: "amplify push" fails after unmanaged updates to non-database resources in the cloud.

Assume you have an application with a GraphQL schema deployed to the cloud using Amplify CLI. 
You then have performed one or more of the following types of changes  
1. Updated your GraphQL schema using the AppSync console, or
2. Deleted user pools created by Amplify from the Cognito console, or
3. Updated the code in Lambda functions which were originally deployed through Amplify.
These types of unmanaged changes will introduce a drift for the affected resources. Therefore subsequent updates to these resources using Amplify will most likely fail deployment.

**Suggested Resolution:** 
These types of drifts must be addressed on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, such as a Lambda code change, forcing a redeployment of the function by making a minor change to the code will likely work. 

> In other cases, like deleting user-pools or updates to GraphQL schema from the AppSync console, follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other cases, like deleting a user pool or updates to GraphQL schema from the AppSync console, follow the steps below:
```

> 1. Forcible deployment of CloudFormation stack from the CLI - Run `amplify push --force` to force push the application’s resource stack to be deployed.

Reviewer: Can this be simplified to? Not sure if it's semantically/technically accurate to say this
```suggestion
1. Force a new CloudFormation stack deployment - Run `amplify push --force` to force push the application's resources.
```

> 1. Forcible deployment of CloudFormation stack from the Console - Fetch the CloudFormation stack from the application’s deployment bucket and selectively run the resource specific part of the stack through the CloudFormation console.

Reviewer: I don't fully get this. What exactly do I need to do to recover?

> 1. Apply drift changes into code: If both the above methods to deploy CloudFormation have failed for you, the other option is to inspect the manual changes and to update them in the CLI input files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply drift changes into code - If methods above failed, the other option is to inspect the manual changes and to update them in the CLI input files. 
```

For example, you could update the GraphQL schema to reflect the same changes as performed manually in the cloud and then perform `amplify push`.

### Push failures in a multi-account multi-environment project (CI/CD errors)
<Callout>

**Errors:** 

"There was an error initializing your environment.”  
"!!! Build failed"
"!!! Non-Zero Exit Code detected"
</Callout>

In a multi-account project with CI/CD, you find that the application has deployed successfuly in one account but has failed deployment in another account. 
The following are some common causes:

> 1. Some resource being referenced in the Amplify generated CloudFormation is missing from the failing account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Some resource being referenced in the Amplify-generated CloudFormation is missing from the failing account. 
```

> 1. The failing account is missing valid permissions to access a particular resource used in the CloudFormation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The failing account is missing permissions to access a particular resource used in the CloudFormation. 
```

> 1. The application code relies on “secrets” and secrets are not correctly created or copied in the failing environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The application code relies on “secrets” that are not correctly created or copied in the failing environment.
```

#### Scenario 1: "amplify push" fails in one account/environment

> Assume you created a project in a “dev” account and you extend your deployment environment to a full CI/CD pipeline with dev, beta and prod environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume you created a project in a “dev” account and you extend your deployment environment to a full CI/CD pipeline with dev, beta, and prod environments. 
```

Your project likely follows a pattern specified in the [Amplify CLI team environments guide](/cli/teams/overview/#setting-up-prod-and-dev-environments). 

> On completion of all steps you observe that Amplify Hosting console displays the “build” step of one of your stages ("beta") as failed and shows other stages as successfully deployed.

Reviewer: stages or environments? Shouldn't it be environments?
```suggestion
On completion of all steps, you observe that the Amplify Hosting console displays the “build” step of one of your environments (such as "beta") as failed and shows other environments as successfully deployed.
```

**Suggested Resolution:** 

> Using Amplify CLI deploy the application in the failing account. In the above case, dev stage has successfully deployed and beta stage has failed. 

Reviewer: "Using Amplify CLI deploy the application in the failing account. " I don't understand this part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Amplify CLI deploy the application in the failing account. In the above case, the dev environment has successfully deployed but the beta environment has failed. 
```

> Therefore you must first get the "appID" of your application from the dev stage account.  
> You will get the appID from the "Edit backend" section of your application's Amplify console page in the dev environment.
> Perform the following steps to fetch the app from the dev environment and deploy it into the beta environment.

Reviewer: This is an incorrect use of the word "Therefore". 
```suggestion
First, get the App ID from your dev environment. You can find your App ID under the "Edit backend" section of your application's dev environment in the Amplify console.
Perform the following steps to fetch the app from the dev environment and deploy it into the beta environment.
```

> 1. `amplify pull --appId devAppID --envName dev`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `amplify pull --appId <YOUR_APP_ID> --envName dev`
```

1. `amplify env checkout beta`
1. `amplify push` 

> If `amplify push` fails, check the CloudFormation event logs for the failing resource to get detailed information and use this to fix issues in the failing environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `amplify push` fails, check the CloudFormation event logs for the failing resource to get detailed information to fix issues in the failing environment. 
```

In the AWS CloudFormation console, search for your application's stack name. For instance, if your application was named "lil" and deployed in your "dev" environment, 
Amplify would have generated a CloudFormation stack named `amplify-lil-dev-{random chars}`.
In the Cloudformation console, click on the application's stack name and then click on the "Resources" tab. 
The "Resources" tab displays the deployment status of all the resources in the stack. It will also show the deployment error reason. 

> Refer the [CloudFormation troubleshooting document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/troubleshooting.html#basic-ts-guide) to gain insight into the error messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [CloudFormation troubleshooting document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/troubleshooting.html#basic-ts-guide) to gain insight into the error messages.
```

**Note:**
To debug any issues related to secrets not being correctly copied across environments, refer to [Multi-environment flows](/cli/function/secrets/#multi-environment-flows) section in the [Access secret values](/cli/function/secrets) documentation. 

![CloudFormation status logs for a deployment failure of a resource](/images/ts-guide-cfn-error.png)

### Push failures from resources exceeding AWS service quotas
<Callout information>

**Errors:** 

"Limit on the number of resources in a single stack operation exceeded”  
"Cannot exceed quota for PoliciesPerRole"
</Callout>

AWS maintains [service quotas](/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) for various AWS services. If your application contains many resources, such as large GraphQL schemas with many resolvers or many REST APIs, you may hit a service limit.

> To identify if a push failure is because of exceeding [AWS Service level quotas](/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) check the AWS console for the CloudFormation deployment/failure logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify if exceeding an [AWS Service level quotas](/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) caused a deployment failure, check the AWS console for the CloudFormation deployment/failure logs.
```

**Suggested Resolution:** 

> 1. If your application's resource requirements are impaired by AWS service-quotas, you can use the [AWS Service Quotas console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas) to view and request increases for most AWS quotas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your application's resource requirements are impaired by AWS service quotas, you can use the [AWS Service Quotas console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas) to view and request increases for most AWS quotas.
```

1. If you are using the Amplify DataStore, refer to [Amplify DataStore Best Practices](/whitepapers/latest/amplify-datastore-implementation/amplify-datastore-best-practices.html) for insights into making the correct design decisions and optimize resource allocation in your application. 

> 1. If the service quotas cannot be increased, then this may require you to redesign some aspects of your application for sustainable scaling in a serverless environment. Referring to [AWS Knowledge Center](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/) may help understand the different prescribed design changes. For example, a complex GraphQL schema could be simplified to reduce the number of GraphQL resources in use e.g collapsing models, composite keys, Lambda resolvers. Using escape hatches like overrides and export may help to scale the application beyond the CLI generated architecture. 

Reviewer: "e.g collapsing models, composite keys, Lambda resolvers." -> "For example, ..." I don't fully get what "collapsing composite keys or collapsing Lambda resolvers" means.

Reviewer: Link for overrides and export would be great.

#### Scenario 1: Optimizing REST API schema for reducing policy count:
Assume you have deployed a REST API using Amplify CLI with many routes and one Lambda to handle all routes. 
Amplify CLI in this case generates one policy per route and applies it to the Lambda execution role. Therefore in this configuration, the max number of allowed routes is limited by the “Max policies per role” limit in [AWS IAM limits](/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_iam-limits.html).

> The following table shows the distribution of policies w.r.t routes in such a configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the distribution of policies with regards to routes in such a configuration.
```

> **note:** The term "Resource" represents an [API Gateway resource](/apigateway/api-reference/resource/resource/) allocated to service the "Route". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The term "Resource" represents an [API Gateway resource](/apigateway/api-reference/resource/resource/) allocated to service the "Route". 
```

|Resources	|Policies|	Role|	Handler|
|-|-|-|-|
|/items/rock|	amplify generated policy1	| | |
|/items/paper| amplify generated policy2 |Lambda Execution Role | Lambda function |
|/items/scissors|	amplify generated policy3 || |		

However, if your application has many routes, one way to reduce the number of policies generated is by creating a single route resource and to support additional paths as query parameters:
`/items?item=rock, /items?item=paper, /items?item=scissors` 
In this case the Amplify CLI creates only 1 policy for the /items resource.

|Resources	|Policies|	Role|	Handler|
|-|-|-|-|
|/items| amplify generated policy1	| Lambda Execution Role | Lambda function |

### Push failures from GraphQL schema syntax errors
<Callout>

**Errors:** 

“Schema validation failed”, “Unknown directive"
</Callout>

> After making any GraphQL schema changes, run `amplify api gql-compile` to ensure that the schema is correctly formed and Amplify is able to generate valid CloudFormation from the GraphQL schema. Refer to the [Amplify CLI GraphQL documentation](/cli-legacy/graphql-transformer/overview/) to understand the latest Amplify GraphQL directives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After making any GraphQL schema changes, run `amplify api gql-compile` to ensure that the schema is valid and Amplify is able to generate correct CloudFormation templates from the GraphQL schema. Refer to the [Amplify CLI GraphQL documentation](/cli/graphql/overview/) to understand the latest Amplify GraphQL directives.
```

#### Scenario 1: GraphQL Schema errors

> Assume your GraphQL schema has an error where the directive @model is misspelled as @mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume your GraphQL schema has an error where the directive "@model" is misspelled as "@mode":
```

```graphql
type Tag @mode { /** @mode is an invalid directive **/
  id : ID!
  tag: String
  topics: [Topic]
}
```

When running `amplify api gql-compile` the transform step will fail with an invalid directive error. 

![Amplify GraphQL schema validation error](/images/ts-guide-gql-schema-validation-error.png)

### Troubleshooting other GraphQL schema related errors 
If `amplify push` fails while deploying any of the scenarios below, refer to the [Amplify GraphQL Troubleshooting Guide](/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/).
1.	[Deploying multiple index changes in a single `amplify push`](/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/#deploying-multiple-index-changes-at-once)
1.	[Backfill OpenSearch index from DynamoDB table](/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/#deploying-multiple-index-changes-at-once)
1.	[Index with Multi-Sort Key Fields](/cli/graphql/troubleshooting/#index-with-multiple-sort-key-fields)

## Deployment Best Practices
This section describes the various best practices which help developers avoid deployment errors and scaling problems in their Amplify applications.

### Overriding Amplify CLI default behavior 

> The Amplify CLI follows a unidirectional data flow. Any changes to your application must be performed only through the Amplify CLI and the associated configuration files or through Amplify Studio. Never manually edit any resources directly from the AWS console or using the AWS CLI/SDK, unless the Amplify documentation explains that it’s necessary to achieve something. To override the default behavior of Amplify CLI generated resources, you must follow the instructions in the [Amplify extensibility documentation](/cli/#extensibility) which details all the “escape hatches” available in the Amplify CLI framework. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any changes to your application must be performed only through the Amplify CLI and the associated configuration files or through Amplify Studio. Never manually edit any resources directly from the AWS console or using the AWS CLI/SDK, unless explicitly noted. To override the Amplify-generated resources beyond the customizations available within an Amplify CLI command, you must follow the instructions in the [Amplify extensibility documentation](/cli/#extensibility) which details all the “escape hatches” available in the Amplify CLI framework. 
```

### Understanding the impact of changing model names in the GraphQL Schema 
<Callout>

**Errors:** 

“An error occurred during the push operation: Removing a model from the GraphQL schema will also remove the underlying DynamoDB table” 
“ALL EXISTING DATA IN THESE TABLES WILL BE LOST!”
</Callout>

Amplify automatically creates DynamoDB database tables for GraphQL types annotated with the @model directive in your GraphQL schema. 

> Therefore if you rename models in the GraphQL Schema, to protect the application data from accidental deletion, the Amplify CLI will block subsequent `amplify push` operations and prompt you to explicitly pass the `—allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates` flag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore if you rename models in the GraphQL Schema, to protect the application data from accidental deletion, the Amplify CLI will block subsequent `amplify push` operations and prompt you to explicitly pass the `--allow-destructive-graphql-schema-updates` flag. 
```

> This flag must only be used when the data in the original tables is not required. It will explicitly allow Amplify to delete the DynamoDB tables for the original model names and create the tables with the new model names in the schema. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This flag grants Amplify CLI the ability to make destructive database changes, such as deleting the DynamoDB tables for the original model names and create new tables with the new model names specified in the schema. 
```

|[IAM troubleshooting](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amplify/latest/userguide/security_iam_troubleshoot.html)|Troubleshoot and fix common issues encountered when working with Amplify and IAM.|
|[Amplify CLI extensibility](/cli/#extensibility) | Learn about the different escape hatches provided by the Amplify CLI to extend your application and override default behavior |
|[Amplify DataStore best practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/amplify-datastore-implementation/amplify-datastore-best-practices.html) | Learn the best practices to build your applications 'Offline First' using Amplify DataStore |
|[AWS knowledge center](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/) | Learn about the most frequent questions and requests for your AWS services |
|[AWS CloudFormation drift](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/using-cfn-stack-drift.html) | Detect and View Cloudformation Drift |

## Contacting support

> Join us on the [Amplify discord channel]( https://discord.com/invite/amplify) 

Reviewer: Can you confirm with Matt Auerbach, if this is the right messaging for Discord?
```suggestion
Join us on the [Amplify Discord channel]( https://discord.com/invite/amplify) 
```
